Launch Chapter Re-vamp (#401)
wandb/docs: docs/guides/launch/launch_terminology.md

---
displayed_sidebar: default
---

# Terms and concepts

The following are basic terms and concepts that will help you get started with W&B Launch:

[INSERT bullet points w/ hyperlinks to each term here]

#### Job template

> A job is an Artifact that is created automatically when you track a run with W&B. Each job template contains contextual information about the run it is being created from, including the source code, entrypoint, software dependencies, hyperparameters, dataset version, etc.

Reviewer: > A job

A job template

Reviewer: Let's describe the 3 kinds of job templates here too: artifact/code, git, image

#### Job

> Text.

Reviewer: Something like, "Once a job template has been created, you can use it to create jobs and put them into a queue.  You can think of jobs as work orders that contain all the information W&B requires to perform that work.  This includes: ..."

> #### Job config

Reviewer: I think this can be part of the `Job` section

Text

#### Resources

> Text

Reviewer 2: Okay this looks like it's all todo, but I'd like to get up to speed on changes we are making to our terminology

#### Target resources
The compute environment that a queue is configured to execute jobs on is called the *target resource*.

For example, if a launch job is popped off a Docker queue, the agent will execute the run locally with the `docker run` command. If the job was in a Kubernetes queue, the agent will execute the run on a Kubernetes cluster as a [Kubernetes Job](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/) with the Kubernetes API.

> #### Queue

Reviewer: Let's tighten up this language. `FIFO` and `pop` contradict each other.  Items are `enqueued` at the back of a queue and `dequeued` at the front.

"Launch Queues are used to provide access to your target resources.  Similar to how each ride at an amusement park has its own queue, each of the target resources where you want to send jobs should have its own Launch Queue"

As above, I think the queue configuration section below can be merged into this

Reviewer: aside: amusement parks may not be the most useful analogy for a global audience.

Launch *queues* are first in, first out (FIFO) queues that pop off launch jobs. The launch queue uses the target resource you define in a launch queue configuration to execute the jobs on that queue. 

#### Queue configuration
The configuration of your launch queue. You specify the launch queue when you create a queue. The schema of your launch queue configuration depends on the target compute resource jobs are executed on. 

For example, the queue configuration for an Amazon SageMaker queue target resource will differ from that of a Kubernetes cluster queue target resource.

> #### Agent

Reviewer: I think we need some language to introduce what the agent is, conceptually, before describing how it operates.

The W&B Launch Agent is a small service whose sole purpose is to dequeue jobs from one or more Launch Queues and run it on that queue's target resource.

Building on the amusement park analogy, this is the ride attendant who ushers guests from the front of the queue and onto the ride.  However, unlike ride attendants, one Launch Agent can service multiple Launch Queues.

The agent polls on one or more queues. When the launch agent pops an item from a queue, it will, if necessary, build a container image to execute the run within and then execute that container image on the compute platform targeted by the queue.

These container builds and executions happen asynchronously. 

#### Agent environment
The environment that a launch agent is running in, and polling for launch jobs, is called the *agent environment*. Example agent environments include: locally on your machine or Kubernetes clusters. See the Launch agent environments[LINK] section for more information.

> The launch agent environment is independent of a queue's launch target resource.

Reviewer: > A Launch Agent's environment is independent of the Launch Queue(s) it is pulling from.  However, Launch Agents must be provided with sufficient configuration and credentials to launch jobs on the target resources specified by your Launch Queues.  Additionally, if you are launching non-image-based jobs (link), the Launch Agent must be configured with a builder.

---
displayed_sidebar: default
---

# Terms and concepts

> When you use W&B Launch, you enqueue [jobs](#TBD) onto [queues](#TBD). Queues run on a [target resource](#TBD). [Agents](#TBD) poll queues and execute jobs on target resource based on the content's of the queue's configuration.

Reviewer: > Queues run on a [target resource]

This is not accurate.  Queues are managed by and exist in the W&B backend service.  I think we should remove this sentence, as clarifying becomes repetitive with the rest of this paragraph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use W&B Launch, you enqueue [jobs](#TBD) onto [queues](#TBD). Jobs are python scripts [instrumented with W&B](#TBD). Queues hold a list of jobs to run on a [target resource](#TBD). [Agents](#TBD) pull jobs from queues and execute them on target resources. These jobs are tracked like any other [run](#TBD).
```

> * Launch job

Reviewer: Should we remove these?

* Launch queue
* Target resource
* Launch agent

#### Launch job
A job is a specific type of [W&B Artifact](#TBD) that represents some work to be done.  Job definitions include:

- Python code and other file assets, including at least one runnable entrypoint.

> - Information about inputs (config parameters, used artifacts) and outputs. (metrics, created artifacts)

Reviewer 3: We only capture config parameters and outputs (metrics logged)

Reviewer 3: No artifact related info unless its in the config

:::

Once a job is defined, it can be found in the W&B app under the `Jobs` tab of your project workspace.  From there, jobs can be configured and sent to a [Launch queue](#TBD) to be executed on a variety of [target resources](#TBD).

#### Launch queue
Launch *queues* are ordered lists of jobs to execute on a specific target resource.  Launch queues are first-in, first-out. (FIFO).  There is no practical limit to the number of queues you can have, but a good guideline is one queue per target resource.  Jobs can be enqueued with the W&B App UI, W&B CLI or Python SDK.  Then, one or more Launch agents can be configured to pull items from the queue and execute them on the queue's target resource.

#### Target resources
The compute environment that a Launch queue is configured to execute jobs on is called the *target resource*.

W&B Launch supports the following target resources:

- [Docker](#TBD)
- [Kubernetes](#TBD)
- [AWS SageMaker](#TBD)
- [GCP Vertex](#TBD)

> Each target resource accepts a different set of configuration parameters.  So-called "resource configurations" take on default values defined by each Launch queue, but can be overridden independently by each job.  See the documentation for each target resource for more details.

Reviewer 3: This is very succinct and well put IMO
